.TH "KENNEL-TEMPLATE" "1" "" "Project Kennel" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kennel\-template \- inspect and sign Project Kennel templates and fragments (the template house)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkennel template\fR \fIsub-verb\fR [\fIargs\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkennel template\fR is the shared\-base noun group of \fBkennel\fR(1). A template is a signed source TOML file other policies inherit from (a floor); a fragment is an additive\-only piece a policy composes by reference. Neither is ever runnable: the runnable unit is always a leaf policy, authored and compiled in the \fBkennel\-policy\fR(1) house and run by \fBkennel run\fR.
.PP
Templates are the security baseline, so template trust is system\-level: a template signature verifies against the system trust stores (/etc/kennel/keys and the vendor store), never a user key. Signing appends a [signature] block to the source file, preserving its comments; the reserved\-namespace gate (which tier may claim which provides) is enforced by the compiler when a policy resolves against the template.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBkennel template list\fR
list templates and fragments in the search path
.TP
\fBkennel template show <template> [\-\-template\-dir D]... [\-\-trust\-dir D]...\fR
show what a template resolves to (its effective floor)
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-template\-dir D\fR
Add a directory to the template/fragment search path (repeatable). Overrides the config.toml default cascade.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-trust\-dir D\fR
Add a directory to the signing\-key trust store used while authoring (repeatable).
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel template clone <name> [<new\-name>] [\-\-key K]\fR
fork an unreserved template/fragment's source into the user house
.RS
.TP
\fB<new\-name>\fR
Clone to a different name; default keeps the name. An object whose [[provides]] claims a reserved family is not clonable (renaming is no escape) \- derive from it instead.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-key K\fR
Sign the clone with key K (default: the sole user key).
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel template install <file.toml> [\-\-host] [\-\-force] [\-\-key K]\fR
place and sign a source template/fragment at the invoking tier
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR
Install at the host tier (/etc/kennel; needs root; signs with the host key).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Replace an existing object of the same name.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-key K\fR
Sign with key K instead of the tier's default.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel template sign <template> \-\-key <key> [\-\-key\-id <id>] [\-\-output <path>]\fR
sign a source template or fragment (use `policy compile` for a policy you run)
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-key <key>\fR
The signing key id (required).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-output <path>\fR
Write the signed artefact to path.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel template lint [\-\-template\-dir D]... [\-\-trust\-dir D]...\fR
check the shipped template corpus for incoherences
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-template\-dir D\fR
Add a directory to the template/fragment search path (repeatable). Overrides the config.toml default cascade.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-trust\-dir D\fR
Add a directory to the signing\-key trust store used while authoring (repeatable).
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
Success. For kennel run, the workload's own exit code is passed through (clamped to a byte).
.TP
\fB1\fR
Generic failure: the CLI could not reach kenneld, a file could not be read, or kenneld returned an error.
.TP
\fB3\fR
Policy validation or resolution failure: schema, invariants, template inheritance, or include conflict.
.TP
\fB6\fR
Signature or lockfile\-pin failure during resolution.
.TP
\fB7\fR
kennel policy lint found at least one coherence finding across the template corpus.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.config/kennel/templates/\fR
User\-tier templates (the cascade's first stop); /etc/kennel and /usr/lib/kennel carry the host and vendor tiers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBkennel template list\fR
List templates and fragments across the cascade.
.TP
\fBkennel template show base\-confined\fR
Print the floor a deriving leaf inherits.
.TP
\fBkennel template sign my\-base \-\-key host\-key\fR
Sign a shared base template.
.TP
\fBkennel template lint\fR
Check the template corpus for incoherences.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkennel\fR(1), \fBkennel\-policy\fR(1), \fBkennel\-key\fR(1), \fBpolicy.toml\fR(5)
