.TH "KENNEL" "1" "" "Project Kennel" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kennel \- run and manage confined workloads (kennels)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkennel\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
kennel is the command\-line front\-end to Project Kennel, a security sandbox that runs a workload (an AI coding agent, a build, a service) under a signed policy. Each invocation of \fBkennel run\fR is one kennel: its own context, cgroup, constructed filesystem view, masked identity, per\-kennel network namespace, and egress proxy, all torn down when the workload exits.
.PP
The CLI talks to the per\-user \fBkenneld\fR(8) daemon over a control socket; kenneld constructs and supervises the kennel. Policy authoring (compile, sign, validate, lint) is done locally by the CLI and needs no daemon.
.PP
Run \fBkennel \fIcommand\fB \-\-help\fR for a command's usage. The policy sub\-verbs have their own page, \fBkennel\-policy\fR(1).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBkennel run <policy> [<name>] [\-\-key K] [\-\-key\-id ID] [\-\-force] [\-\-template\-dir D]... [\-\-trust\-dir D]... [\-\- <cmd...>]\fR
run a workload confined by a policy or template, in the foreground
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-key K\fR
Sign the in\-memory compiled policy with key K for the local\-dev run loop (auto\-compile).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Override a [workload] pinned argv with a CLI \-\- command.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\- <cmd...>\fR
The command to run inside the kennel (overrides [workload].argv unless pinned).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-template\-dir D\fR
Add a directory to the template/fragment search path (repeatable). Overrides the config.toml default cascade.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-trust\-dir D\fR
Add a directory to the signing\-key trust store used while authoring (repeatable).
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel attach <name>\fR
reattach a terminal to a running kennel (Ctrl\-\ d to detach)
.TP
\fBkennel review <policy> [\-\-yes] [\-\-revert]\fR
review a workspace's trust manifest: re\-pin legitimate edits, or \-\-revert tampering
.TP
\fBkennel release <policy>\fR
release a leaked exclusive over\-mount (fs.exclusive crash recovery)
.TP
\fBkennel stop <name>\fR
stop a running kennel
.TP
\fBkennel list\fR
list running kennels and the cross\-kennel service mesh
.TP
\fBkennel daemon\-reload\fR
re\-derive the service catalogue from the enablement links
.TP
\fBkennel policy <list|show|edit|generate|compile|validate|sign|lint|risks|diff|inspect> [...]\fR
author, inspect, sign, and check policies
.RS
.TP
\fB(sub\-verbs)\fR
See kennel\-policy(1) for list, show, edit, generate, compile, validate, sign, lint, risks, diff, inspect.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel keygen <key\-id> [\-\-dir DIR] [\-\-force]\fR
generate a policy\-signing key
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-dir DIR\fR
Write the key pair to DIR instead of the default key store.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Overwrite an existing key of the same id.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel audit <name> [\-\-resource CLASS] [\-\-since DUR] [\-\-novel\-only] [\-\-follow] [\-\-print\-journalctl\-command]\fR
show a kennel's audit log
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-resource CLASS\fR
Filter to one class (network, filesystem, exec, ...).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-since DUR\fR
Only events newer than DUR (e.g. 1h, 30m).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-novel\-only\fR
Suppress events seen in a prior run (new events only).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-follow\fR
Stream new events as they arrive.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-journalctl\-command\fR
Print the equivalent journalctl invocation and exit.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel oci <build|run|revert|update> <name> [\-\-image <ref>] [\-\-key K] [\-\-force] [\-\- <cmd...>]\fR
build and run an OCI image as a confined kennel substrate (§7.11)
.RS
.TP
\fBbuild <name> \-\-image <ref>\fR
Provision a named image store entry: record the provenance digest and scaffold a run policy.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fBrun <name> [\-\-key K] [\-\- <cmd...>]\fR
Boot a built store entry under its signed policy (the digest is checked against [rootfs].image).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fBrevert <name>\fR
Obliterate the persisted overlay upper (persistence = persist); a no\-op for discard/readonly.
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fBupdate <name> \-\- <ref>\fR
Replace the image layer: record the new digest, discard the upper (\-\-keep\-state to keep).
.RE
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Overwrite an existing entry (build) or override a pinned [workload] (run).
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
Success. For kennel run, the workload's own exit code is passed through (clamped to a byte).
.TP
\fB1\fR
Generic failure: the CLI could not reach kenneld, a file could not be read, or kenneld returned an error.
.TP
\fB3\fR
Policy validation or resolution failure: schema, invariants, template inheritance, or include conflict.
.TP
\fB6\fR
Signature or lockfile\-pin failure during resolution.
.TP
\fB7\fR
kennel policy lint found at least one coherence finding across the template corpus.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/usr/libexec/kennel/\fR
The helper binaries kenneld resolves (see kennel\-helpers via the .8 pages).
.TP
\fI~/.config/kennel/config.toml\fR
User CLI conveniences (search paths). See config.toml(5).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBkennel run ai\-coding\-strict \-\- claude\fR
Run Claude Code confined by the ai\-coding\-strict template.
.TP
\fBkennel run ./policy.toml myjob\fR
Auto\-compile and run a local source policy as kennel 'myjob'.
.TP
\fBkennel list\fR
Show running kennels.
.TP
\fBkennel audit myjob \-\-follow\fR
Stream myjob's audit log.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkennel\-policy\fR(1), \fBkenneld\fR(8), \fBpolicy.toml\fR(5), \fBconfig.toml\fR(5), \fBsystem.toml\fR(5)
