.TH "KENNELD" "8" "" "Project Kennel" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
kenneld \- the per\-user Project Kennel supervisor daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkenneld\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
kenneld is the per\-user, socket\-activated supervisor for Project Kennel. It is not invoked directly: it is started on demand by its systemd socket unit when the \fBkennel\fR(1) CLI connects, and it persists for the user session.
.PP
For each \fBkennel run\fR, kenneld verifies the settled policy, invokes the \fBkennel\-privhelper\fR(8) factory to construct the kennel (namespaces, identity maps, the constructed view, the per\-kennel binderfs bus), acquires binder node 0, and supervises the facades and the workload until exit, then tears the kennel down. kenneld is unprivileged; the one privilege boundary is the privhelper.
.PP
kenneld resolves its helper binaries and trust store through a config cascade; see \fBsystem.toml\fR(5). Spawn diagnostics are controlled by the \fIlog_level\fR key there and split across the user and system journals.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/usr/libexec/kennel/\fR
The helper binaries kenneld forks (see the host\-*, facade\-*, kennel\-* .8 pages).
.TP
\fI/etc/kennel/system.toml\fR
Integrity\-sensitive deployment config (binary paths, trust store). See system.toml(5).
.TP
\fI/etc/kennel/keys/\fR
The daemon's signing\-key trust store.
.TP
\fI/etc/kennel/subkennel\fR
Per\-user allocations kenneld requires to start a kennel. See subkennel(5).
.TP
\fI~/.local/state/kennel/<kennel>/\fR
Per\-kennel audit log (append\-only).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkennel\fR(1), \fBkennel\-privhelper\fR(8), \fBsystem.toml\fR(5), \fBsubkennel\fR(5)
