.TH "KENNEL-KEY" "1" "" "Project Kennel" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kennel\-key \- manage Project Kennel's tier\-bound signing keys (the key house)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkennel key\fR \fIsub-verb\fR [\fIargs\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkennel key\fR is the signing\-key noun group of \fBkennel\fR(1). A key's tier is where it lives, and that is the only level it signs at: a user key (~/.config/kennel/keys) signs user objects, the host key (/etc/kennel/keys) signs host objects, and the maintainer key never appears in shipped tooling. No verb offers a cross\-tier signing path. Acceptance runs the other way and is downward\-inclusive: an artefact verifies under a key from its own level or any level above it, so a vendor\- or host\-signed artefact copied down just works.
.PP
\fBgenerate\fR derives the tier from context: invoked as a user it mints a user key; as root, the host key. \fBtrust\fR and \fBuntrust\fR exist only at host level (root) \- the user tier needs no trust list, because \fBkennel policy install\fR re\-signs foreign objects under the user's own key, which is user\-level trust conferred per object. \fBuntrust\fR names every artefact that stops verifying, across the host tier and the user tiers below it, before it acts.
.PP
\fBrotate\fR is the supervised ceremony: it retires the old pair (the public half leaves the .pub namespace, so the trust store stops loading it), mints a successor under the same key id, re\-signs every template the key signs, and recompiles every leaf it signs \- removing a lockfile whose pinned template was re\-signed, so the re\-pin cascade is driven rather than folklore. Objects at other tiers riding the old signature are named as owed work: a host rotation cannot sign for a user, and says so.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBkennel key generate <name> [\-\-force]\fR
generate a signing key at the invoking tier (user; as root: host)
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Overwrite an existing key of the same name blind; prefer rotate, which re\-signs what the old key signed.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel key list\fR
list keys across all tiers: name, tier, fingerprint, mine\-vs\-trusted
.TP
\fBkennel key show <name>\fR
show a key's fingerprint and everything it signs across the repos
.TP
\fBkennel key trust <file.pub> [\-\-force]\fR
add a public key to the host trust store (root; host level only)
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Replace an existing trusted key of the same id.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel key untrust <name> [\-\-yes]\fR
remove a key from the host trust store, impact report first (root)
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-yes\fR
Proceed after the impact report; without it the report prints and nothing is removed.
.RE
.TP
\fBkennel key rotate <name> [\-\-yes]\fR
rotate a key: successor, re\-sign what it signs, retire the old
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-yes\fR
Proceed after the plan prints; without it the plan prints and nothing rotates.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
Success. For kennel run, the workload's own exit code is passed through (clamped to a byte).
.TP
\fB1\fR
Generic failure: the CLI could not reach kenneld, a file could not be read, or kenneld returned an error.
.TP
\fB3\fR
Policy validation or resolution failure: schema, invariants, template inheritance, or include conflict.
.TP
\fB6\fR
Signature or lockfile\-pin failure during resolution.
.TP
\fB7\fR
kennel policy lint found at least one coherence finding across the template corpus.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.config/kennel/keys/\fR
User\-tier keys: your signing pairs (private + .pub).
.TP
\fI/etc/kennel/keys/\fR
Host trust store: the host signing key and org/customer public keys (root\-owned).
.TP
\fI/usr/lib/kennel/keys/\fR
Vendor trust store: the maintainer public key (package payload, never an install target).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBkennel key generate remco\-dev\fR
Mint a user\-tier signing key.
.TP
\fBkennel key list\fR
Every key across the tiers: name, tier, role, fingerprint.
.TP
\fBkennel key show kennel\-host\fR
The host key's fingerprint and everything it signs.
.TP
\fBsudo kennel key trust acme\-2026.pub\fR
Trust an org key at the host tier.
.TP
\fBsudo kennel key rotate kennel\-host \-\-yes\fR
Rotate the host key and drive the re\-sign/re\-pin cascade.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkennel\fR(1), \fBkennel\-policy\fR(1), \fBkennel\-template\fR(1), \fBkenneld\fR(8)
