.TH "POLICY.TOML" "5" "" "Project Kennel" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
policy.toml \- Project Kennel policy file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIpolicy\fR.toml, \fItemplate\fR.toml, \fIfragment\fR.toml
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Project Kennel policy is a TOML file: a leaf policy, a template it inherits from, or a fragment it includes. The parser rejects unknown keys, duplicate keys, type mismatches, and out\-of\-range path forms. This page is a field summary; the machine\-generated schema/policy.toml.schema is the exhaustive field reference.
.PP
Paths use \fB~/\fR for the kennel persona home (\fI/home/<user>\fR, never a host path), \fB/abs\fR for host\-absolute, \fB<kennel>\fR for the runtime id, and \fB*\fR/\fB**\fR globs. Execution is deny\-by\-default.
.SS top\-level
Identity and inheritance.
.TP
\fBtemplate_base\fR \(em name@vN
Parent template reference; absent only for the root (base\-confined).
.TP
\fBtemplate_name / template_version\fR \(em string
A template's own name and version (templates only).
.TP
\fBname\fR \(em string
The kennel name (leaf policies; matches the filename).
.TP
\fBinclude\fR \(em array of name@vN
Signed fragments composed additively.
.TP
\fBsignature\fR \(em table
Signature envelope; required for templates/fragments, optional for leaves.
.SS [exec]
What may be execve()'d. Deny\-by\-default.
.TP
\fBallow\fR \(em array of path globs
The execve allowlist; empty denies all. A bare ** is the warned permissive opt\-out.
.TP
\fBdeny\fR \(em array of path globs
Carves exceptions out of allow.
.TP
\fBdeny_setuid / deny_setgid / deny_setcap / deny_writable\fR \(em bool
Framework invariants (true): refuse setuid/setgid/fcap/writable\-path binaries.
.TP
\fBpath\fR \(em array
$PATH search roots recorded for the workload.
.TP
\fBshell\fR \(em string
The login shell (default /bin/sh); must be in allow when an allowlist is enforced.
.SS [fs]
Filesystem access; write covers create/modify/delete.
.TP
\fBread / write / deny\fR \(em array of path globs
Read (and traverse/execute), write, and categorical denies (deny evaluated first).
.SS [fs.home] / [fs.tmp] / [fs.proc] / [fs.dev]
The constructed view sub\-tables.
.TP
\fBfs.home.persist\fR \(em array
Home\-relative paths that persist writably across runs (else reconstructed each spawn).
.TP
\fBfs.home.readonly\fR \(em bool
Make the constructed $HOME read\-only.
.TP
\fBfs.tmp.writable / .size\fR \(em bool / string
Whether the workload may write its /tmp tmpfs (the Landlock grant), and its size cap ("512M").
.TP
\fBfs.proc.hidepid\fR \(em bool
Mount /proc with hidepid=2 (procfs is always self\-only).
.TP
\fBfs.dev.allow\fR \(em array of paths
Trivial pseudo\-device baseline (/dev/null, /dev/urandom, ...).
.TP
\fB[[fs.dev.passthrough]]\fR \(em array of tables
Real host devices: path, group, reason (required), threats (exposed tag required).
.SS [identity]
The masked persona and supplementary groups.
.TP
\fBuser / group\fR \(em string
Masked user and primary group names (default kennel).
.TP
\fBgroups\fR \(em array
Supplementary groups to retain; the operator must be a member of each.
.SS [env]
Environment is synthesised, not inherited.
.TP
\fBset\fR \(em table
Variables forced to a value (the recommended path).
.TP
\fBpass / deny\fR \(em array of globs
Pass\-through from the caller (discouraged) and denies over it.
.SS [net], [net.proxy], [net.bpf], [net.bind], [net.audit]
Egress; see policy.toml's full reference for the complete tables.
.TP
\fBnet.mode\fR \(em string
none / constrained (default) / unconstrained / host.
.TP
\fBnet.reason\fR \(em string
Required when mode = host (reinstates the T1.6 host\-recon residual).
.TP
\fB[[net.proxy.allow]]\fR \(em array of tables
By\-name/CIDR egress allow (proxied modes): name, cidr, ports, protocol, reason, tls, threats.
.TP
\fB[net.bpf]\fR \(em tables
Kernel CIDR+port connect/bind ACL (every mode); author may only narrow.
.SS [unix]
AF_UNIX socket shim.
.TP
\fBabstract\fR \(em string
Abstract\-namespace toggle (default deny; the socket floor is structural default\-deny).
.TP
\fB[[unix.allow]]\fR \(em array of tables
name, real, shim, env, reason, threats.
.SS [ssh]
Per\-kennel SSH egress via the bastion (no real key in the kennel).
.TP
\fBallow_headless\fR \(em bool
Allow a non\-interactive kennel to drive a key with no touch (loud; threat\-tagged).
.TP
\fB[[ssh.destinations]]\fR \(em array of tables
dest, options (host\-side ssh argv), reason (required), threats.
.SS [lifecycle], [cap], [seccomp], [unsafe], [ulimits], [workload], [audit]
The remaining controls.
.TP
\fBlifecycle.ttl / .ttl_action\fR \(em string
TTL ("8h") and action: exit (alias stop, default) / warn / renew.
.TP
\fBcap.no_new_privs / .bounding_set\fR \(em bool / array
no_new_privs (true) and the capability bounding set (empty drops all).
.TP
\fBseccomp.profile / .deny / .allow\fR \(em string / array / array
Baseline profile plus syscall deny/allow.
.TP
\fB[unsafe.ptrace] / [unsafe.signal]\fR \(em tables
Advisory cross\-boundary allowlists (allow_targets/allow_from); scoping is from PID\-ns/seccomp \(em these warn, they do not impose the control.
.TP
\fB[ulimits]\fR \(em table
setrlimit pairs (nofile, nproc, as, cpu, ...).
.TP
\fB[workload] argv / cwd / pinned / sha256\fR \(em mixed
The command, working dir, pin against CLI override, and binary digest pin.
.TP
\fB[audit] sinks + [audit.*]\fR \(em tables
Sink selection and per\-class levels; see system.toml(5) and 02\-3\-audit\-schema.md.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fIkennel.lock\fR
Lockfile beside the leaf policy: pins each resolved reference by SHA\-256.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkennel\-policy\fR(1), \fBkennel\fR(1), \fBsystem.toml\fR(5)
