.TH "SYSTEM.TOML" "5" "" "Project Kennel" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
system.toml \- Project Kennel deployment configuration (integrity\-sensitive)
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/kennel/system.toml, /usr/lib/kennel/system.toml
.SH DESCRIPTION
system.toml holds the integrity\-sensitive paths kenneld resolves at startup: the helper\-binary directory, the signing\-key trust store, and the host sshd. It is \fBnot\fR user\-overridable \(em kenneld never reads ~/.config for these, because letting a user redirect the trust store would defeat policy signing.
.PP
Resolution is a cascade, lowest priority first: the vendor copy (/usr/lib/kennel/system.toml), then /etc/kennel/system.toml, each key overriding the layer below. Compiled\-in defaults apply where a key is unset, so a host with no file still runs.
.SH FIELDS
.TP
\fBlibexec_dir\fR \(em path
Directory of kenneld's helper binaries (default /usr/libexec/kennel).
.TP
\fBtrust_dir\fR \(em path
The daemon's signing\-key trust store (default /etc/kennel/keys).
.TP
\fBsshd\fR \(em path
The host sshd the per\-user SSH bastion launches (default /usr/sbin/sshd).
.TP
\fBlog_level\fR \(em string
Spawn\-path diagnostic verbosity: info (default), debug, trace. Splits across the user and system journals.
.SS per\-binary overrides
Absolute paths; each defaults to <libexec_dir>/<name>. Override one binary's location:
.TP
\fBprivhelper\fR \(em path
kennel\-privhelper \(em the suid privilege boundary.
.TP
\fBnetproxy\fR \(em path
host\-netproxy \(em egress CONNECT delegate.
.TP
\fBsocks5\fR \(em path
facade\-socks5 \(em in\-kennel SOCKS5/HTTP front\-end.
.TP
\fBinetd\fR \(em path
host\-inetd \(em inbound BIND mirror delegate.
.TP
\fBfacade_client\fR \(em path
facade\-client \(em in\-kennel inbound BIND pull end.
.TP
\fBafunix\fR \(em path
facade\-afunix \(em AF_UNIX socket\-shim facade.
.TP
\fBssh\fR \(em path
facade\-ssh \(em in\-kennel SSH egress connector.
.TP
\fBakc\fR \(em path
kennel\-akc \(em sshd AuthorizedKeysCommand helper.
.TP
\fBinit\fR \(em path
kennel\-bin\-init \(em trusted uid\-0 PID 1.
.TP
\fBoci_entry\fR \(em path
kennel\-bin\-oci\-entry \(em workload\-side OCI image launcher (\(sc7.11).
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/usr/lib/kennel/system.toml\fR
Vendor (lowest\-priority) copy installed by the package.
.TP
\fI/etc/kennel/system.toml\fR
Administrator overrides (highest priority).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkenneld\fR(8), \fBconfig.toml\fR(5), \fBkennel\fR(1)
